---
layout: page
title: "How did it go?"
date: 2018-03-19T00:47:12Z
---

_Quick note: This post is long, so here's a ToC to help._

- [Status](#status)
- [Overall Roundup](#overall-roundup)
- [Things I did over the last three days](#things-i-did-over-the-last-three-days)
- [Tasks left undone](#tasks-left-undone)
- [Tasks to do after this](#tasks-to-do-after-this)
- [The Money Section](#the-money-section)
- [Thanks](#thanks)
- [What's next?](#whats-next)
- [The Ask](#the-ask)

## Status

Well, getting back on the work wagon on Sunday night has not proved easy, at all. Knowing that I made my goal - even though I still have the lion's share of the work to actually do - has taken an unexpected hit on my ability to focus. Back in [my Patreon post](https://richardlitt.github.io/2117.91USD/2018/03/16/16-03-project-statement-for-patreon/), I mentioned that I've been struggling with focusing on one task in between the two extremes of excitement and tiredness. Put another way, discipline is a muscle I need to practice a bit more.

Given that I know that, and now that I am sitting down, what can I reasonably due before 1:00am? There's a few possibilities. I can work on Jekyll Scheduler, or make some more art for cafes, or start enacting any of the contracts I landed as part of this project. But I think that the most important thing I can do would be to make a post mortem of this entire experience - what did I do well, what did I do poorly? How did I feel about the process? When did I flag in productivity, and why? Where did I fail to market this well? What did I leave undone?

I _think_ that's the most productive thing to do at this juncture. So, let's do that. First, I am going to give my overall impressions, right now; then, I'll read through all of the posts again and identify interesting points; then I'll make a list of what I have left to do, and how and when I am going to do that.

## Overall Roundup

This was an exceptional few days. I started three days ago with nothing but a bet with a friend, which I doubt he seriously considered I would actually fulfil. What I wanted at the time was clarity on a few things. First, could I actionably focus on a task if it involved actively improving my life? Paying off my student loans are arguably the most important thing I could be doing with my time right now, given that they affect my decisions around work (arguably, because there are other things - physical rehabilitation for my broken foot, learning French and the fiddle, focusing on [Maintainer.io](https://maintainer.io), or [writing my thesis](https://github.com/RichardLitt/thesis) all might contend for the most important spot, too). This challenge was custom made to stretch what I thought I could do, and how I could do it.

I did not plan it very well. For instance, I didn't initially think to myself: "OK, I am going to start a blog, and talk about it." Instead, I figured initially that it would make a lot of sense for me to keep a log of what I do and how I do it. I figured I might as well put this in a GitHub repository, because I like writing in Markdown anyway, I didn't plan on having people seriously read this, and that way I could use GitHub Issues to plan stuff. I picked the name randomly based on the loan size, without thinking about how it would look to talk about debt so openly. I made the repo public because I didn't see a reason to make it private. It would be more accurate to write I default to public, than that I intentionally put my journal out there as a statement.

That was an exceptionally good idea. It turned out that I did not get far in terms of providing new services. For instance, Jekyll Scheduler wasn't finished; I never made the National Geographic cover website; I didn't launch a expedition social media company; I didn't do anything involving machine learning. Instead, I mostly talked about what I was working on, and why, and that was all I needed to do. Almost immediately, from one of the first people I shared it with, I started to get offers for work. Within an hour I had $250 promised that wouldn't have existed if I hadn't started talking about what I was doing.

I failed at some aspects. I should have made the Jekyll blog, sooner - dropping the GitHub repo into various social media channels and slacks didn't turn up a lot of results, mostly because non-coders didn't know what to make of Markdown files in a GitHub repository. That was my fault. I corrected it as soon as I got some honest feedback from a stranger - all of the Friday night session was spent editing a basic GitHub theme to make this blog look nicer.

I could have focused more on the value, and not the money. This entire project I was fighting the feeling that I was begging for money, even when I said explicitly that I wasn't. It's the catalyst, and it's hard being honest about hardships in today's society without sounding like you're complaining. I don't know a way around this, and I haven't had enough time (three days is not enough) to fully grasp whether this issue may be intractable from this effort.

I also completely failed to actually market _what I do_. This was the biggest shocker, for me. At no point over the past three days did I sit down and say: "Richard, people don't actually know what you do or how to hire you, if you don't tell them. Tell them!" For instance, I never mentioned [The User Is Drunk](https://theuserisdrunk.com), where I've traditionally gotten most of my sporadic contracts through people having fun clicking around. I didn't mention [Maintainer.io](https://maintainer.io) except in passing, even though that is my core business model. I didn't tell people that I'm interested in building CLI JavaScript apps, or that I have an Open Collective account, or that I want to do more writing for money (journalism, blogs, whatever). This mattered, because I only really got money from people who already knew my skills - Dean, who has known me for over a dozen years (since before I was a coder, even); Andrew, who works in the exact same field as me; and Zach, who already supported me on Patreon and who knows that I want to do some ML stuff, and that I am a computational linguist by training. What would have happened if I hadn't depended on contracts from people I knew, knowing me already? I suspect this would have flopped.

Another issue I had was staying up late on Saturday night. I was up until 2:30 in the morning. At some point, my brain, unused to being awake after 10:00pm (really), decided that I was staying up and if that's the case it would stop telling me to go to sleep. I didn't do much after 1:00. I should have just gone to bed. Today, Sunday, I was absolutely _wrecked_. I got in a couple of hours of poor work in the morning, and I tried to force work all afternoon, to my actual detriment (psychologically and physically). It was only after I had a nap that I was able to realise I wasn't functioning well, and to tell myself to chill out and relax before I made the situation worse. I'm unhappy with my posts, and I'm not happy that I got angry at Photos. I didn't need to; it was a completely unnecessary emotion that would have been avoided if I had simply gone to sleep earlier on Saturday night. This is a really good thing to notice, for me, for the future.

My lack of a proper working Sunday ruined the chance for me to get Jekyll Scheduler launched, which made me sad, because that was the thing I put the most heart into over this whole sprint. I am going to get it up at some point this week, anyway, but I wish it was sooner. Of course, I also made my goal by 10:00am. I decided early on that I didn't need to physically get all of the money by Sunday to complete; I just needed to have contracts out that I would then fulfil after. (And, actually, my goal was really to be done by a second call with Felipe, at 1:00pm. I managed, but the call was postponed due to his being in Church anyway).

Which means this was, in effect, a two day sprint. That's something I can try in the future.

One thing I did exceptionally well in this sprint was talking about it, and asking other people for help. Because of that, this was not a solitary endeavour. And what it was couldn't have happened without support.

It turns out that writing as I go, publicly, is an incredibly useful tool for me to think and hack. I did more in the past two days than I am used to do, and learned much more. I am going to keep this style of writing up, I think, even if it does take some time. What I lose on the swings, I make on the roundabouts.

The ultimate judge, for me, is that I made the money I wanted to, and that I had a great deal of fun doing it. Do I wish I had been more productive? Of course. Do I wish I had done things differently? Sure. Do I wish I had marketed this better? Yep. Would I do it the same way again? Likely, with some edits. But overall, the experience itself was wonderful. I don't say that about most weekends.

## Things I did over the last three days

- I checked my Maintainer tickets almost every day. I missed on Sunday. That's important, because this is my actual work.
- I wrote a Patrons-only Patreon post, and linked it here.
- I did some emails.
- Ricardo morning coffees on Saturday, as is our ritual; and brunch with friends on Saturday. I also hung out with Dean, which was an added bonus, and invited friends to coffee hacks on Sunday morning. I also was at Cafe Pi until midnight, which I've been meaning to do for a while.
- Contacted Buffer employees about their API and about sponsorship or partnerships. This was a waste of time, and ill-done.
- I didn't spend $500 on Twitter, which was probably a smart move.
- Talked to Brian (in Odessa) about marathon training for August - keeping long term commitments even in short term sprints is important. Scheduled a weekly call.
- Planned a National Geographic International Covers site, and researched and discarded the idea.
- I installed [the stale Probot](https://probot.github.io/apps/stale/) on [thegreatsuspender](https://github.com/deanoemcke/thegreatsuspender) for Dean. That was my first actual $10, and my first time installing Probot. Fun!
- Obsessed about my reputation.
- Had a ton of breaks, and had a ton of fun.
- Talked to the Probot people about using a Probot for Jekyll Scheduling, using a GitHub App. Built this out, and then abandoned it due to GitHub API limitations.
- Designed and built a Node app and got it running on Heroku doing manual requests using OAuth to force GitHub Pages builds. More plans still in the works.
- Marketed this on Twitter extensively, and to most of my Slacks.
- Altered and designed a new Jekyll theme for this blog. Added some rake tasks to make it easier to use.
- Learned all about GitHub's API and [octokit](https://github.com/octokit/rest.js), and the GitHub Marketplace.
- Implemented OAuth in under 1.5 hours. Ran my first MongoDB server that worked. Successfully learned how to do forms in Express, and what pug.js is.
- Made a marketing plan for expeditions (not published here).
- Met some new people!
- Wrote 13,000 words.
- Made some art for cafes! I've been meaning to do this for ages, so I'm glad I did it.

## Tasks left undone

- I never wrote [my weekly newsletter](https://tinyletter.com/richlitt) on Friday to my followers, around 200 people. That would have been a good idea.
- I didn't answer enough emails on time.
- I never went to that party with Ian, and Pablo and I never had Brunch.
- I didn't effectively use Buffer.
- I didn't build a Buffer API tool to schedule posts at set times from your CLI without using their datepicker. I also didn't build a new JavaScript SDK for them. Good.
- Jekyll Scheduler doesn't have a scheduler running on Heroku yet; it doesn't have advanced functionality (such as a free or paid tier); it is not performant yet (on the free mLab and Heroku tiers).
- I never finished the Jekyll Scheduler Probot due to API limitations.
- I didn't bring people in effectively to help out.
- I did no machine learning stuff.
- I didn't market on any of my other consultancies about this project. That was a net loss.
- I never built my expeditions social media company landing page.
- I didn't work on Jekyll Scheduler on Sunday, at all.
- I didn't manage to get my Maintainer Dashboard up on Heroku, either. This was a stretch goal.

## Tasks to do after this

- [ ] Build the auction and art site for Dean's son, Sun. This should be 4-5 hours of work, at $250 for the project.
- [ ] Work 16 hours over the next two weeks for Zach.
- [ ] Audit of [splitrb](https://github.com/splitrb), [24pullrequests](https://github.com/24pullrequests), and [octobox](https://github.com/octobox) for Andrew.
  - [ ] I need to get paid for this through [OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/maintainer), which I haven't used before for this, and then I need to market that appropriately.
- [ ] Get Jekyll Scheduler up and running using stripe.
  - [ ] Finish the basic functionality.
  - [ ] Write a blog about it.
  - [ ] Launch it on various social medias, like Lobster.
    - [ ] Check out lobst.er
- [ ] Get the [mntnr dashboard](https://github.com/mntnr/dashboard) up, too.
- [ ] Follow up with GitHub Support about their API authentication for builds from integration services.
- [ ] Install my art in Café Névé; if not, make more art.
- [ ] Pay off my debt on Monday using savings, knowing they'll be replenished.

## The Money Section

Where did it come from?

Contracts:

- $10 for stalebot from Dean.
- $250 for Sun's art site from Dean
- $1200 from Zach for 16 hours of machine learning and computational linguistics work for healthcare name disambiguation. This is actually still in the works, but it should be fine.
- $500 for org audits of splitrb from Andrew.
- $150 for repo audits of 24pulrequests and octobox from Andrew

Donations:

- $2 from Jacqueline over Patreon.
- $10 from Andrew over Patreon.
- $25 from Kristof over Plasso.
- $0.91 from Ricardo in cash, but only if he notices this.

Total: $2147.91  
Goal: $2117.91  

I probably spent more than $30 on coffee, food, and art supplies, but who is counting?

## Thanks

This project could not have been done alone.

Shout out to Bruno in the cafe for his advice and validity; to Ricardo for hacking with me on Saturday and for being an inspiration for hard work himself; to Thomas for letting me natter on about profiteering when you just want to do canvas ML stuff; to Vernon for helping me debug Mongoose; to Dean for coming out late on Saturday night to a weird chess cafe to work next to me; to Jacqueline for holding my hand when I felt attached on Twitter and wanted a second opinion; to Heather for all sorts of things, including dealing with my lack of sleep and helping me take breaks; to Andrew for getting on an early morning Sunday call; to Danesh for reaching out about help; to Felipe for the original encouragement; to Kirsty for the feedback about the blog; and I'm sure I'm forgetting someone.

And, of course, thank you to Dean, Zach, Jacqueline, Andrew, and Kristof for taking a bet on me being able to work hard for you!

To everyone, I'm grateful!

## What's next?

Well, there's the next tasks section, which I'll keep following up on until they are all is done. But otherwise, I have my thesis to (attempt to) finish this coming week, and some work to do on Maintainer Mountaineer. I also have other projects to get to, like [Open Source Cities](https://github.com/opensourcecities) and [Word Hoard Press](https://wordhoardpress), [In Development](http://indevelopment.ca/) and [The Travel Shelf](http://www.thetravelshelf.com/), [The Litt Review](https://www.burntfen.com/the-litt-review/) and marathon training, among [other things](https://burntfen.com). I'm rarely bored.

You can follow along with the thesis [here](https://github.com/RichardLitt/thesis), with Maintainer on our [Slack](https://github.com/mntnr/welcome/issues/1) or by email with me, and with this project by coming back here. I'll post followups.

Or, you could [join my Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/richlitt) and follow along there when I post things, or on [my weekly newsletter](http://tinyletter.com/richlitt) or on [my semi-regularly non-weekly should-be-daily newsletter](http://tinyletter.com/practice). Or just follow me on Twitter [@richlitt](https://twitter.com/richlitt).

## The Ask

My next loan is $49,555.09 as of this writing, at 7.9% APR. I'm heavily considering starting a blog similar to this one, and seeing if I can remove that debt in a month. Would you be interested in following along with that? If so, [email me](mailto:richard@burntfen.com) and let me know!

